1.1: Exposition

        He wakes up in the work dormitory. He has a strange feeling he can't
shake. It's as if he wasn't alive an hour ago. The feeling passes, and he
goes about his day, working on the farm like everyone else, eating with
everyone else at noon in the cafeteria (he doesn't feel like talking to
anyone), working again after dinner until it is time for bed. But when he
gets into bed that night, something makes him get out of bed and go down to
the dormitory terminal room where there are always one or two people typing or reading their mail late at night (there are no watches here; they all have clocks on their wrists). Steve feels like looking through some of these records just for old times sake--and then suddenly there they are: his own records!

1.2: Inciting Incident

    He went back to the dormitory and slept. When he woke up, he felt a little
unsettled again. It was hard to explain--just an uneasy feeling that seemed
to cling to him like a shadow. He shook it off, put on his work clothes and
went out into the field once more. The rest of the day passed in silence as
usual, with nothing much said between them except what was necessary for the
work they were doing together. After supper Steve went back to his bunk and lay awake for hours staring at the ceiling while all around him others slept soundly in their dreams or their nightmares or whatever it is that men dream when they sleep away from reality's cruel lights and sounds. But Steve could not sleep; there were too many things on his mind, too many thoughts swirling through his brain like a whirlwind of ideas that refused to be stilled until he had found some answer....

1.3: Plot Point A

    The next day, after a restless night of unease, Steve returned to the field for another day of work. It was as if some unseen hand had lifted the weight off his shoulders. He was able to concentrate on his job and even found himself once again enjoying the company of his colleagues. There were no more unexplained disappearances and no more strange sounds in the night. The days passed in silence between him and his coworkers with only necessary conversations taking place.

But that evening, Steve couldn't sleep despite the sounds of others around him...His mind was filled with a whirlwind of thoughts and ideas...He knew that he must find answers to these unsettling feelings before they drove him mad!

2.1: Rising Action


“Then the Martian government discovered our hideout. They sent a patrol of soldiers to investigate, and when they found nothing, they went back to their base and raised the alarm. The next morning we were surrounded by an army of Martians.”

2.2: Midpoint

        "I'm going to be all right," Steve said. "You just get out of here."

"I won't leave you," I said. "We both have to go."

"You can't do that," he said. He was beginning to feel better, but his voice was still weak and shaky. He looked at me with a desperate look in his eyes, as if he were pleading for mercy or help from me somehow, even though we had never been friends before now and I didn't know him well enough to understand what he wanted from me or why he would want it so badly that he would risk everything for it--his life, my life, the lives of our friends and allies who were depending on us not only for their own safety but also for the future of all humanity on Earth and Mars.... But I couldn't leave him there alone; we had come too far together; we knew each other too well; we needed each other too much.... And yet if they found us together they might kill both of us without hesitation.... So I hesitated..... And then...

2.3: Plot Point B

"I have to go," he said. "I'm going to be all right. I'll see you later."

The speaker shook his head, and Steve was surprised at the vehemence of his voice. "You can't leave me," he said. "We depend on each other now, and we have a mission that is vital for human safety on Earth and Mars." He leaned forward in the chair, looking into Steve's face with a desperate intensity. "This is not just our lives at stake; it may be the lives of millions of people who are depending on us to discover what these Martians are planning." He sighed heavily, then went on more calmly: "If we die together in this effort, it will be a noble death--for both of us!"

3.1: Pre Climax


"I've got to go," I said, and he looked at me with a kind of horror. "We can't leave each other now."

He shook his head. "No, we can't abandon each other. We have to stay together on this mission or we won't be able to keep the human race safe on Earth and Mars." He took my hand in an almost desperate grip. "Think of all the millions who are depending on us! If necessary, let our lives be spent nobly!"

3.2: Climax


"But there's no time to talk about that now. There's a battle to be won." Steve
pulled his hand free. "Now, come on!" He turned and started for the door at
the far end of the room, where a small crowd of clones waited. The Martian
government had sent an army against them and they were going out to meet it.

3.3: Denouement

        "Steve--"

"No time for that," he said, and broke free of his companion. He pulled out
his gun and stood facing the door. The crowd of clones gathered behind him,
waiting for orders. The Martian government was launching an attack against them,
and Steve led his team out to confront the incoming army. There was no time for discussion; they prepared to engage in battle.

